Rule update: Name from content included in accessible name (2ee8b8) (#452)
act-rules/act-rules.github.io: _rules/visible-label-in-accessible-name-2ee8b8.md

  - 'title-require'
---

## Applicability

This rule applies to any HTML or SVG element that:

- has a [semantic role](#semantic-role) that is a [widget role](https://www.w3.org/TR/wai-aria-1.1/#widget_roles) that [supports name from content](https://www.w3.org/TR/wai-aria-1.1/#namefromcontent); and
- has [descendants](https://dom.spec.whatwg.org/#concept-tree-descendant) in the [flat tree](https://drafts.csswg.org/css-scoping/#flat-tree) that are [text nodes](https://www.w3.org/TR/dom/#text) which are both [visible](#visible) as well as [included in the accessibility tree](#included-in-the-accessibility-tree); and
- has an [accessible name](#accessible-name), even if the name is empty ("").

**Note**: [widget roles](https://www.w3.org/TR/wai-aria-1.1/#widget_roles) that [support name from content](https://www.w3.org/TR/wai-aria-1.1/#namefromcontent) are: `button`, `checkbox`, `gridcell`, `link`, `menuitem`, `menuitemcheckbox`, `menuitemradio`, `option`, `radio`, `switch`, `tab`, `treeitem`.

**Note:** [Text nodes](https://www.w3.org/TR/dom/#text) with only [whitespace](#whitespace) are not [visible](#visible).

## Expectation

> After removing all [punctuation](#punctuation) from both the [visible](#visible) [descendant text content](https://dom.spec.whatwg.org/#concept-descendant-text-content) and the [accessible name](#accessible-name), the [visible](#visible) [descendant text content](https://dom.spec.whatwg.org/#concept-descendant-text-content) of the target element is [included](#included-characters) in its entirety within the [accessible name](#accessible-name) of the element, except for parts of the [visible](#visible) [descendant text content](https://dom.spec.whatwg.org/#concept-descendant-text-content) that do not express anything in [human language](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG21/#dfn-human-language-s) and therefore does not live up to the [WCAG definition of text](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG21/#dfn-text).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After removing all [punctuation](#punctuation) from both the [visible](#visible) [descendant text content](https://dom.spec.whatwg.org/#concept-descendant-text-content) and the [accessible name](#accessible-name), the [visible](#visible) [descendant text content](https://dom.spec.whatwg.org/#concept-descendant-text-content) of the target element is [included](#included-characters) in its entirety within the [accessible name](#accessible-name) of the element, except for parts of the [visible](#visible) [descendant text content](https://dom.spec.whatwg.org/#concept-descendant-text-content) that do not express anything in [human language](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG21/#dfn-human-language-s) and therefore do not live up to the [WCAG definition of text](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG21/#dfn-text).
```

- [Technique G211: Matching the accessible name to the visible label](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/Techniques/general/G211)

## Test Cases

### Passed

#### Passed Example 1

The [visible][] [descendant text content][] and [accessible name][] [match][] when trailing white spaces are removed.

```html
<a aria-label="next page ">next page</a>
```

#### Passed Example 2

[Visible][] [label][] and [accessible name][] [match][] when ignoring case sensitivity.

```html
<div role="link" aria-label="Next Page">next page</div>
```

#### Passed Example 3

The full [visible][] [descendant text content][] is contained in the [accessible name][].

```html
<button name="link" aria-label="View next Page in the list">Next Page</button>
```

#### Passed Example 4

The full [visible][] [descendant text content][] is contained in the [accessible name][], though the name contains more text than the [visible][] [descendant text content][].

```html
<head>
	<style>
		.sr-only {
			position: absolute;
			left: -10000px;
			top: -9999px;
		}
	</style>
</head>

<body>
	<a href="https://github.com/pricing">Read more<span class="sr-only"> about our pricing</span></a>
</body>
```

#### Passed Example 5

> The [descendant text content](https://dom.spec.whatwg.org/#concept-descendant-text-content) does not express anything in [human language](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG21/#dfn-human-language-s) and do therefore not live up to the [WCAG definition of text](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG21/#dfn-text).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [descendant text content](https://dom.spec.whatwg.org/#concept-descendant-text-content) does not express anything in [human language](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG21/#dfn-human-language-s) and does therefore not live up to the [WCAG definition of text](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG21/#dfn-text).
```

  - 'title-require'
---

## Applicability

This rule applies to any HTML or SVG element that:

- has a [semantic role](#semantic-role) that is a [widget role](https://www.w3.org/TR/wai-aria-1.1/#widget_roles) that [supports name from content](https://www.w3.org/TR/wai-aria-1.1/#namefromcontent), and
- has [descendants](https://dom.spec.whatwg.org/#concept-tree-descendant) in the [flat tree](https://drafts.csswg.org/css-scoping/#flat-tree) that are [text nodes](https://www.w3.org/TR/dom/#text) which are both [visible](#visible) as well as [included in the accessibility tree](#included-in-the-accessibility-tree), and
- has an [accessible name](#accessible-name), even if the name is empty ("").

**Note**: [widget roles](https://www.w3.org/TR/wai-aria-1.1/#widget_roles) that [support name from content](https://www.w3.org/TR/wai-aria-1.1/#namefromcontent) are: `button`, `checkbox`, `gridcell`, `link`, `menuitem`, `menuitemcheckbox`, `menuitemradio`, `option`, `radio`, `switch`, `tab`, `treeitem`.

**Note:** [Text nodes](https://www.w3.org/TR/dom/#text) with only [whitespace](#whitespace) are not [visible](#visible).

## Expectation

> After removing all [punctuation](#punctuation) from both the [visible](#visible) [descendant text content](https://dom.spec.whatwg.org/#concept-descendant-text-content) and the [accessible name](#accessible-name), the [visible](#visible) [descendant text content](https://dom.spec.whatwg.org/#concept-descendant-text-content) of the target element is [included](#included-characters) in its entirety within the [accessible name](#accessible-name) of the element, except for parts of the [visible](#visible) [descendant text content](https://dom.spec.whatwg.org/#concept-descendant-text-content) that do not express anything in [human language](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG21/#dfn-human-language-s) and therefore does not live up to the [WCAG definition of text](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG21/#dfn-text).

Reviewer 2: I've been talking with @kasperisager about this (and my related issues with the definition of visible, see #977).

One way out of it would be to have a definition of "rendered node" (or similar) in the line of:
> a node is rendered if removing it from the DOM tree changes the rendered content.

That way, the `span id="space"` above would contain a rendered text node (with text content `" "`). But the `span id="hidden"` and `span id="off-screen"` would not.

Similarly, an example like https://github.com/act-rules/act-rules.github.io/issues/977#issuecomment-552869788
```html
<p style="background: #white; text-shadow: black 0 0 0px">
  <span style="color: rgba(0,0,0,0); ">Some text in a human language</span>
</p>
```
where the text is technically not visible (only the shadow is) would still have a rendered text node. 

---
The drawbacks with that are:
* Some nodes like above can be invisible but still have rendered text nodes descendants. That's a bit weird but fairly OK (and anyway a consequence of whitespace being invisible).
* If the shadow above is made more blurry, it gets harder and harder to read its content, to the point that it gets hard to argue that the text content should be used (_e.g._ to consider it as a WCAG label).
* Something like `<span style="background: red; color: red;">Foo</span>` has a rendered text node because the `span` stretch for the same width as the text.

(because of these tricky cases and the weird interaction with visible, the definition of rendered can probably use examples…)

All these are pretty edge cases and they can be handled by an assumption in the line of
> This rule assumes that no text node is both rendered and not visible.

(likely needs an explanatory note with examples like spaces)
(essentially, "don't use spaces for layout!")

---
With an assumption like that, this rule can use "visible descendant text nodes" or something similar to grab what is needed.

**Note:** Due to the definition of [included characters](#included-characters) the whole consecutive sequence of characters in the [visible](#visible) [descendant text content](https://dom.spec.whatwg.org/#concept-descendant-text-content) of the target element has to be included character-by-character (excluding [punctuation](#punctuation)) in the [accessible name](#accessible-name) to meet the expectation of this rule. The [accessible name](#accessible-name) is however allowed to also contain text content other than the [visible](#visible) [descendant text content](https://dom.spec.whatwg.org/#concept-descendant-text-content).

## Assumptions

- This rule assumes that the [visible](#visible) [text nodes](https://www.w3.org/TR/dom/#text) follow the same order as the text in the code, e.g. CSS has not been used to re-arrange pieces of text so that they are presented in a different order.

> - This rule assumes that the whole set of [visible](#visible) [text nodes](https://www.w3.org/TR/dom/#text) of the element are styled, including placement, in such a way that a sighted user will perceive them all as part of the label of the element. An example where this would not be the case, is where styling is used to split up the visible text nodes in e.g. two parts and place one part further away, or give it a different styling that makes it appear as not connected to the element it labels.

Reviewer 2: label => link to WCAG def.

## Accessibility Support

_No accessibility support issues known._

## Background

- [Understanding Success Criterion 2.5.3: Label in Name](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/Understanding/label-in-name.html)
- [Technique G208: Including the text of the visible label as part of the accessible name](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/Techniques/general/G208)
- [Technique G211: Matching the accessible name to the visible label](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/Techniques/general/G211)

## Test Cases

### Passed

#### Passed Example 1

> [Visible][] [label][] and [accessible name][] match when trailing white spaces are removed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The [visible][] [descendant text content][] and [accessible name][] match when trailing white spaces are removed.
```

> [Visible][] [label][] and [accessible name][] match when trailing white spaces are removed.

Reviewer 2: Removing trailing whitespace is part of the accessible name computation. So visible descendant text content and accessible name are exactly the same in this case.

```html

> <div role="link" aria-label="next page ">next page</div>

Reviewer 2: I'd prefer to use an element that doesn't require explicit role to be applicable.

```

#### Passed Example 2

> [Visible][] [label][] and [accessible name][] match when ignoring case sensitivity.

Reviewer 2: match => link to def (to make obvious the fact that case sensitivity is ignored when matching).

```html
<div role="link" aria-label="Next Page">next page</div>
```

#### Passed Example 3

> Full [visible][] [label][] is contained in the [accessible name][].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The full [visible][] [descendant text content][] is contained in the [accessible name][].
```

```html
<button name="link" aria-label="View next Page in the list">Next Page</button>
```

#### Passed Example 4

> Full [visible][] [label][] is contained in the [accessible name][], though the name contains more text than the [visible][] [label][].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The full [visible][] [descendant text content][] is contained in the [accessible name][], though the name contains more text than the [visible][] [descendant text content][].
```

```html
<head>
	<style>
		.sr-only {
			position: absolute;
			left: -10000px;
			top: auto;
			width: 1px;
			height: 1px;
			overflow: hidden;

> 		}

Reviewer 2: I think this style only need its first two lines for the example to work.

	</style>
</head>

<body>
	<a href="https://github.com/pricing">Read more<span class="sr-only"> about our pricing</span></a>
</body>
```

#### Passed Example 5

> [Descendant text content](https://dom.spec.whatwg.org/#concept-descendant-text-content) does not express anything in [human language](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG21/#dfn-human-language-s) and do therefore not live up to the [WCAG definition of text](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG21/#dfn-text).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The [descendant text content](https://dom.spec.whatwg.org/#concept-descendant-text-content) does not express anything in [human language](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG21/#dfn-human-language-s) and do therefore not live up to the [WCAG definition of text](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG21/#dfn-text).
```

```html
<button aria-label="close">:-)</button>
```

#### Passed Example 6

[Visible][] [label][] and [accessible name][] match when punctuation is removed.

```html
<div role="link" aria-label="Next page">Next page...</div>
```

#### Passed Example 7

> [Visible][] [label][] and [accessible name][] match when parts that do not express anything in human language, "X", and punctuation are removed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The [visible][] [descendant text content][] and [accessible name][] match when parts that do not express anything in human language, ("X"), and punctuation are removed.
```
I think it would be better to use a Unicode symbol for cross/closing rather than a letter. That would illustrate more clearly that it is not human language (but some sort of icon).

```html
<div role="link" aria-label="Close and go back">Close (X) and go back</div>
```

### Failed

#### Failed Example 1

> [Visible][] [label][] doesn't match [accessible name][].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The [visible][] [descendant text content][] doesn't match the [accessible name][].
```

```html
<div role="link" aria-label="OK">Next</div>
```

#### Failed Example 2

> Not all of [visible][] [label][] is included in [accessible name][].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Not all of the [visible][] [descendant text content][] is included in the [accessible name][].
```

- This rule assumes that the whole set of [visible](#visible) [text nodes](https://www.w3.org/TR/dom/#text) of the element are styled, including placement, in such a way that a sighted user will perceive them all as part of the label of the element. An example where this would not be the case, is where styling is used to split up the visible text nodes in e.g. two parts and place one part further away, or give it a different styling that makes it appear as not connected to the element it labels.

## Accessibility Support

_No accessibility support issues known._

## Background

- [Understanding Success Criterion 2.5.3: Label in Name](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/Understanding/label-in-name.html)
- [Technique G208: Including the text of the visible label as part of the accessible name](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/Techniques/general/G208)
- [Technique G211: Matching the accessible name to the visible label](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/Techniques/general/G211)

## Test Cases

### Passed

#### Passed Example 1

> [Visible][] [label][] and [accessible name][] matches when trailing white spaces are removed.

Reviewer: matches > match

```html
<div role="link" aria-label="next page ">next page</div>
```

#### Passed Example 2

> Character insensitivity between [visible][] [label][] and [accessible name][].

Reviewer: Perhaps you can rewrite the sentence in a similar way to the previous example to make it clear why it passes.

```html
<div role="link" aria-label="Next Page">next page</div>
```

#### Passed Example 3

Full [visible][] [label][] is contained in the [accessible name][].

```html
<button name="link" aria-label="View next Page in the list">Next Page</button>
```

#### Passed Example 4

Full [visible][] [label][] is contained in the [accessible name][], though the name contains more text than the [visible][] [label][].

```html
<head>
	<style>
		.sr-only {
			position: absolute;
			left: -10000px;
			top: auto;
			width: 1px;
			height: 1px;
			overflow: hidden;
		}
	</style>
</head>

<body>
	<a href="https://github.com/pricing">Read more<span class="sr-only"> about our pricing</span></a>
</body>
```

#### Passed Example 5

> Text nodes in name from content are not expressing anything in human language and do therefore not live up to the [WCAG definition of text](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG21/#dfn-text).

Reviewer: Complete the sentence clearly explaining why this passes.

```html
<button aria-label="close">:-)</button>
```

#### Passed Example 6

> [Visible][] [label][] and [accessible name][] matches when punctuation is removed.

Reviewer: matches > match

```html
<div role="link" aria-label="Next page">Next page...</div>
```

#### Passed Example 7

> [Visible][label][] and [accessible name][] matches when parts that do not express anything in human language, "X", and punctuation is removed.

Reviewer: [Visible][label][] > [Visible][] [label][]

> [Visible][label][] and [accessible name][] matches when parts that do not express anything in human language, "X", and punctuation is removed.

Reviewer: matches > match

> [Visible][label][] and [accessible name][] matches when parts that do not express anything in human language, "X", and punctuation is removed.

Reviewer: is > are

<a href="/" aria-label="Proof of two multiplied by two is four">Proof of 2&times;2=4</a>
```

#### Failed Example 4

The full [visible][] [label][] is split out across the [accessible name][] and is therefore not [included](#included-characters) in it.

```html
<head>
	<style>
		.sr-only {
			position: absolute;
			left: -10000px;
			top: auto;
			width: 1px;
			height: 1px;
			overflow: hidden;
		}
	</style>
</head>

<body>
	<a href="https://github.com/features/actions"
		>Link <span class="sr-only">that opens a new tab</span> to the homepage</a
	>
</body>
```

> ### Inapplicable

Reviewer: Inapplicable example 4 uses a definition that is not used in the applicability (or the expectation). It would be better to replace it with definitions used in the applicability.

<a href="/" aria-label="Proof of two multiplied by two is four">Proof of 2&times;2=4</a>
```

#### Failed Example 4

> The full [visible][] [label][] is split out across the [accessible name][] and is therefore not [included](#included-characters) in it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The full [visible][] [descendant text content][] is split out across the [accessible name][] and is therefore not [included](#included-characters) in it.
```

```html
<head>
	<style>
		.sr-only {
			position: absolute;
			left: -10000px;
			top: auto;
			width: 1px;
			height: 1px;

> 			overflow: hidden;

Reviewer 2: Trim down styling.

#### Inapplicable Example 4

> Element has no [descendants](https://dom.spec.whatwg.org/#concept-tree-descendant).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This element has no [descendants](https://dom.spec.whatwg.org/#concept-tree-descendant).
```
